# The Director
The Director is a special research project of Riff.CC, intended to completely decentralise the primary mechanisms that allow Riff.CC to operate.

NOTE: We will be using regular BCH or possibly SLP NFTs, not regular SLP tokens.
## Purpose
The Director creates a JSON-based "pseudo-API" suitable for consumption by applications, both SPA and traditional.

It is intended to create a package of metadata which can be stored entirely on IPFS and loaded as needed.

Once the package is created, The Director uses a special custom SLP token to permanently record the root IPFS hash.

Optionally, The Director can also sign the entire bundle to certify it, by simply signing the root IPFS hash.

## Methodology
In order to provide a verifiable chain of trust, we propose a surprisingly simple solution.

1. Using the SLP standard, we create a custom for-purpose SLP token which can be used to provably certify metadata.
2. Two new wallets are created.
3. The SLP minting baton is used to mint tokens and send them to Wallet A.
4. Wallet A sends tokens to Wallet B, attaching the root IPFS hash as an OP_RETURN code.

When the Riff.CC application starts, it simply checks Wallet B's transactions, finds the latest valid one and uses it to load in the root hash.

To handle future updates, we simply publish a new IPFS hash by sending SLP tokens from Wallet A to Wallet B with the IPFS hash encoded in the "OP_RETURN" field/opcode.

This system allows us to create a special key pair that can be used to certify and publish content to Riff.CC, while retaining the ability to switch to a new keypair in the process. As all key pairs must have tokens generated by the minting baton in order to be considered valid, any key pair with tokens must have been created by Riff.CC.

It follows that any metadata and any IPFS hashes described the "pseudo-API" were verifiably certified by our keys, providing a level of end-to-end assurance that they are legitimate.

A compromised key pair could allow an attacker to publish content and force Riff.CC users to see it. However, it's possible to permanently invalidate a compromised key pair - we simply issue a new key pair, then update the Origin Root pointer to include the new Wallet B address instead of the old one.

Upon starting, the Riff.CC application will fetch the Origin Root's JSON data, and check the SLP addresses it returns. If the suggested address' SLP tokens were received by its associated Wallet A at a later point in time than Wallet A in the old address received theirs, the new key pair ("metadataSigner") is more trustworthy than the currently stored address, and the currently stored address is discarded in favour of the new one.

If the suggested address' SLP tokens are older than those of the currently selected key pair, we know that either a malicious attacker has altered the contents of the Origin Root gateway to return an old and compromised key pair, or - much more likely - the CDN is storing old or cached data. We simply ignore it and continue using the newer pair.

As alluded to earlier, digital signatures form the final piece of our proposed solution - as CDNs could potentially alter the contents of the JSON blobs they deliver, we need a way of mitigating that. We deal with it by signing the entire metadata bundle, which is in fact as simple as signing the root IPFS hash with the metadataSigner keys. Clients can check that the hash has a valid associated signature and throw a warning or failure if it appears to be wrong. This allows us to take advantage of CDNs to accelerate the delivery of the metadata bundles, without opening ourselves up to the possibility of malicious data being injected. We can additionally use the Cloudflare-developed IPFS security attributes to provide further assurances on the platforms which can support them.

## Ramifications
In total this results in a system that allows for the issuing of new key pairs that can be distributed to less trusted parties due to the ease with which they can be revoked and made ineffective for attackers. The only known circumstance so far that allows for major attacks is if the Origin Root gateways are all down while a key is compromised, preventing us from making a new key pair take effect. Even in this circumstance, however, we could send a special  "burn" transaction to the old Wallet B, with an OP_RETURN indicating that keypair has been burnt, followed by the next appropriate key pair to use. Seeing this, a client will switch to the new key pair without having to contact the Origin Root gateways.

As this system helps facilitate a full and permanent switch to IPFS and the retirement of the BitTorrent protocol within the platform, it has a further advantage - as IPFS swarms are globally shared by default, any content we seed is provided to the rest of the IPFS ecosystem with no work required by us. This does potentially allow room for a competitor project to overtake and out-compete us, but in this event we have either failed in our mission or they are bringing interesting new ideas and passion to the space. In any case, most competitors will simply live alongside us and help boost the overall goals of both projects.
 
If this research pans out, clients will be able to load content from Riff.CC with zero infrastructure of our own being required, as all contents can be loaded from IPFS or an IPFS gateway and the pointers for where to retrieve that data from are stored publicly on the BCH chain. We retain the ability to update the metadata and remove or edit content, to improve it or to remove objectionable or illegal materials. Any content references in the old metadata remains on the IPFS network, but is no longer likely to be pinned by any Riff.CC users and no longer earns any BONS, reducing any incentive for our network of users to continue seeding it.

The implementation of such a system with open and transparent code would allow any platform to create their own "view" of the world, consuming Riff.CC's content and user bandwidth in a symbiotic fashion, or some other set of content or some combination of both.
